The seasonal part of an ARIMA
model has the same structure as
the non-seasonal part.
It may have an AR term, an MA term,
and a differencing component.
Pure seasonal AR or
MA behavior is similar to the signature
of pure non-seasonal AR or MA behavior.
Except that the patterns
appear in the ACF and
PACF plots that use a seasonal lag.
A model that should use just AR terms
slowly decays in the ACF while the PACF
cuts off to zero.
Conversely, a model that should use
just MA terms has spikes in the PACF,
the decay towards zero,
while the ACF cuts off to zero.
A seasonal AR model is most
appropriate when seasonal
autocorrelation is positive, whereas
a seasonal MA model is most appropriate
when seasonal
autocorrelation is negative.
Let's return to our Bates' Hotel
example to see what this looks like.
Let's open back up our ARMA
workflow in Alteryx and
take a look at the time series plot
of the seasonal first difference.
When looking for non-seasonal p and
q values in seasonally difference data,
we can ignore any significance
at the seasonal lags.
This will be found in our ACF and
PACF plots.
This would be lag 12, 24 and so
on because we have monthly data.
When finding seasonal p and q values,
we will only want to look for
significance in the seasonal lags.
In the ACF and
PACF plots of the seasonal first
difference of the bookings data, we see
a significant negative lag at 12 and
cuts off to 0 at lag 24,
suggesting seasonal NA1 terms.